Initial docs for ENSDb (#1942)
namehash/ensnode: docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensdb/integrations/ensnode.mdx

---

> title: ENSNode Reference Implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Reference Implementations
```

> description: Overview of ENSNode, the reference implementation of the ENSDb standard, including its components and architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A directory of reference implementation of the ENSDb standard.
```

sidebar:
  label: ENSNode Reference Implementation
  order: 1
---
import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> ENSNode is the reference implementation of the [ENSDb standard](/ensdb/concepts/glossary#ensdb-standard), providing a complete ecosystem of tools and services for building with ENSDb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ENSNode includes initial reference implementations of the [ENSDb standard](/ensdb/concepts/glossary#ensdb-standard). This includes ENSIndexer as a reference ENSDb writer and ENSApi as a reference ENSDb reader. These are just a few examples of the ecosystem of tools and services that are possible when you build with ENSDb.
```

> The core implementation consists of three main components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This initial reference implementation consists of three main components:
```

> - An [ENSDb instance](/ensdb/concepts/glossary#ensdb-instance) — The PostgreSQL database following the ENSDb standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An [ENSDb instance](/ensdb/concepts/glossary#ensdb-instance) — A PostgreSQL database following the ENSDb standard.
```

> - An [ENSIndexer instance](/ensdb/concepts/glossary#ensindexer-instance) — The reference ENSDb Writer implementation that writes data into the ENSDb instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An [ENSIndexer instance](/ensdb/concepts/glossary#ensindexer-instance) — A reference ENSDb Writer implementation that writes data into the ENSDb instance.
```

> - An [ENSApi instance](/ensdb/concepts/glossary#ensapi-instance) — The reference ENSDb Reader implementation that serves GraphQL and REST APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An [ENSApi instance](/ensdb/concepts/glossary#ensapi-instance) — A reference ENSDb Reader implementation that serves GraphQL and REST APIs.
```
